# PML Sample Documents

A collection of shared PML example documents and chunks to be used in this project (and elsewhere) for the various tests and demonstrations, ranging from basic to complex features coverage.

-----

**Table of Contents**

<!-- MarkdownTOC autolink="true" bracket="round" autoanchor="false" lowercase="only_ascii" uri_encoding="true" levels="1,2,3" -->

- [Directory Contents](#directory-contents)
- [About The Samples](#about-the-samples)
    - [Samples Maintenance](#samples-maintenance)
    - [Samples Types](#samples-types)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

-----

# Directory Contents

- [`chunks/`][chunks/] — PML snippets.
- [`standalone/`][standalone/] — PML documents without `[insert` nodes.


# About The Samples

The rationale for centralizing the PML samples used in the Playground is to avoid contents repetition (DRY) and maintenance redundancy: whenever a new PML release introduces changes to the language, and the samples chunks are updated accordingly, every sub-project that uses them will automatically benefit from their updates.

The obvious advantage is that sub-project that use these samples don't have to worry about their maintenance.
The downside is that they won't have full control over the samples contents.

## Samples Maintenance

Since these are shared assets, anyone is free to add new sample chunks and documents, and edit or updated existing ones, regardless of whether he/she is their original creator or not.

Each sample chunk and document addresses specific sets of features, and has a well defined scope (either explicitly declared in the document, or obviously deducible by its context); as a long as contributors preserve their originally intended usage, any changes and updates should be fine.

## Samples Types

This directory contains three types of samples:

1. **Chunks** — PML snippets, each targeting a specific feature, to be `[insert`ed in other PML documents, either as examples (e.g. in tutorials and documentation) or as the building blocks for the sample documents in this directory.
2. **Chunked Samples** — Full fledged PML sample documents that use `[insert` node to collate various chunks.
3. **Standalone Samples** — Full fledged standalone PML sample documents that don't depend on external chunks.
They might be created either manually or generated by a script that concatenates various chunks into the target document.

Again, the whole idea rests on the DRY principle: it's better to store often reused contents into independent chunks that can be then included in other PML documents via the `[insert` node, or by concatenating the source chunks.


<!-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               REFERENCE LINKS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------>

<!-- project files and folders -->

[chunks/]: ./chunks/ "Navigate to folder"
[standalone/]: ./standalone/ "Navigate to folder"

<!-- EOF -->
